[new] Create a read replica for PostgreSQL (#1565)
timescale/docs: mst/postgresql-read-replica.md

---
title: Create a read-only replica of PostgreSQL
excerpt: Learn how to create a read-only replica for PostgreSQL service on Managed Service for TimescaleDB 
product: mst
---

# Create a read-only replica of PostgreSQL service

> PostgreSQL® read-only replicas enable you to perform read-only queries against

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostgreSQL read-only replicas allow you to perform read-only queries against
```

> the replica and reduce the load on the primary server. You can optimise query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the replica and reduce the load on the primary server. You can optimize query
```

response times across different geographical locations because the replica can
be created in different regions or on different cloud providers.

<highlight type="note">

> If your PostgreSQL service is running a [Pro plan](https://docs.timescale.com/mst/latest/about-mst/#service-configuration-plans),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are running a Managed Service for TimescaleDB 
[Pro plan](https://docs.timescale.com/mst/latest/about-mst/#service-configuration-plans),
```

> you have standby nodes available in a high availability setup. These support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you have standby nodes available in a high availability setup. The standby nodes support
```

read-only queries to reduce the effect of slow queries on the primary node.
</highlight>

<procedure>

## Creating a replica of POstgreSQL

1.  Log in to the Aiven web console.

1.  Select the PostgreSQL instance for which you want to create a remote replica.

> 1.  In the `Overview` tab, click `Create a read replica` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Overview` tab, click `Create a read replica`.
```

> 1.  In the `Create a PostgreSQL read` page, type a name for the remote replica,

Reviewer: Is that the right name for the page?

Author: > Is that the right name for the page?

<img width="883" alt="Screenshot 2022-09-09 at 8 41 10 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/37059749/189264370-548885d6-893e-4a3c-9b67-f8647fa7e23a.png">

    select the cloud provider, location, plan that you want to use, and click
    `Create`.

</procedure>

> After the read-only replica is created it is listed as a service in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the read-only replica is created it is listed as a service in your
```

---
title: Create a read-only replica of PostgreSQL
excerpt: Learn how to create a read-only replica for PostgreSQL service on Managed Service for TimescaleDB 
product: mst
---

# Create a read-only replica of PostgreSQL service

PostgreSQL read-only replicas allow you to perform read-only queries against
the replica and reduce the load on the primary server. You can optimize query
response times across different geographical locations because the replica can
be created in different regions or on different cloud providers.

<highlight type="note">
If you are running a Managed Service for TimescaleDB 
[Pro plan](https://docs.timescale.com/mst/latest/about-mst/#service-configuration-plans),
you have standby nodes available in a high availability setup. The standby nodes support
read-only queries to reduce the effect of slow queries on the primary node.
</highlight>

> 

Reviewer 2: can we add a note that the service must be in `Running` before starting the process?

Author: sure!!! thank you @jfjoly !!! the suggestions you made are coming in a new PR because this is merged now :(

<procedure>

> ## Creating a replica of POstgreSQL

Reviewer 2: the o in postgres should be lowercase
`## Creating a replica of PostgreSQL`

Author: done!!
